Ronaldo’s fantastic game - increases goal difference to Messi
Cristiano Ronaldo scored five goals in La Liga this weekend and continued scoring also in the Champions League.
The competition between Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo for the Champions League goal scoring record is, at least for the moment, tipping the scales in favour of the latter.
Real Madrid’s Ronaldo moved clear on his own at the top of the all-time scoring charts, after scoring twice from spot-kicks and once from a game situation against guest team Shakhtar Donetsk.
Ronaldo increased his goal scores to 80, when before Tuesday he was level with Barcelona’s Messi on 77 goals.
Real won the match 4-0.
Early this season, Juventus has struggled in the Italian football league, Seri A, but it had a strong start in the D Group of the Champions League as it won Manchester City 2-1 in an away game.
The winning goal was scored about ten minutes before the end byt Juventus’ Alvaro Morata.
City’s strikes were blunted because they were lacking Sergei Aguero, who has a knee injury.
Aguero picked up an injury in the weekend’s Premier League game, and did not make an appearance until the final ten minutes.
The other Manchester team United also had a rough night in Holland, as they suffered a 1-2 defeat against PSV Eindhoven.
ManU's 20-year-old back Luke Shaw’s away match only lasted for a quarter of an hour.
PSV’s Hector Moreno’s dangerous-looking lunge hit the ManU back so badly that Shaw probably broke his shin bone.
Shaw lay on the Eindhoven home stadium turf for about ten minutes, before the medical personnel took him to the hospital to be treated.
Memphis Depay scored 1-0 for the guests on the 41st minute, but ManU’s joy lasted only a few minutes.
Moreno squared the game on overtime before the break.
PSV’s winning goal was scored by Luciano Narsingh on the second half-time.
This season’s Champions League scoring was opened by Paris Saint-Germain in the A Group.
The Argentinian who changed Manchester United’s shirt to PSG’s jersey, Angel Di Maria, was to be thanked for the goal.
Di Maria burst down the right and steered the ball into the far corner past Malmö’s goalie, Johan Wiland.
Edinson Cavani scored 2-0 for PSG during the second half-time.
PSG is mentioned among this season’s possible successes.
It is not a wrong assumption, but Malmö, who is one of the small clubs in the League, is not the best possible point of comparison.
PSG’s star striker, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, faced his original team, Malmö FF, for the first time.
Ibrahimovic started his career in Malmö in 1999.
Roman Eremenko played 90 minutes, when his team, PFC CSKA Moscow lost 0-1 for Wolfsburg in a B Group match in Germany.
