Triple-S government decided to resort to mandatory law in order to save the country’s economy.
Subsequent visible effects were seen quite soon.
SAK and other labour market organisations’ head started to ache immediately, and as a result, the country stands still on Friday thanks to employees massive demonstration.
Many think that also common sense comes to a standstill then.
The question is if it is worth going on a strike, when the things are already going badly.
Some have even organised a resistance movement.
Online over 50,000 people have announced that they will not take part in the demonstration but will go to work.
During the good old consensus times, this would have been impossible.
Of course there was no internet where one could protest, but openly proclaiming to be a strike-breaker would have been a political suicide for an ordinary person.
This protest of a few tens of thousands of people is of little concern to trade unions with millions of members, but it will give them something to think about.
The position of labour movement is not as axiomatic as it still was two decades ago.
Not everyone can identify with the goals of the movement, the values have changed
From the point of view of the labour movement’s appeal, the government’s harsh solutions can also be seen as an absolute heaven-sent.
After things have seemed to be driven by their own momentum for years, finally the unions can get down to business: to protect the rights of an employee, explicitly and properly.
This way the government may unintentionally strengthen the role of the labour movement, as membership in a trade union can be perhaps seen as more necessary than before.
Whatever the opinion on the organisers’ actions, the idea that the demonstration on Friday would somehow stop Finland is nonsense.
Finland has stopped already some time ago.
For example, industrial production has been declining for 31 consecutive months.
The GDP is still dropping and unemployment rising.
You would think these things are a headache to everyone.
