Social media was weighed in the matriculation examination for English
The Wednesday's test in this autumn's matriculation examination was advanced foreign language, which for most is English.
There were over 16,000 candidates testing their skills in English.
One topic for the essay part of the test was social media.
The candidate was supposed to consider, based on their own experiences, whether social media makes us lonely and unhappy.
Another option was to write a text of 150-200 words addressed to a person writing an online advice column.
The title was Dear Agony Aunt.
Agony Aunt is equivalent to Finnish Leelian lepotuoli.
She was the one to ask advice about how to make parents see things also from the point of view of the young people.
There were altogether four topics, one of which had to be chosen.
“This was the most difficult”, estimated Mia Lybeck, lecturer in English from Porvoo Swedish-speaking upper secondary school, about the third topic.
The third topic only included a citation from the former President of the Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso.
According to Lybeck, the fourth topic was quite nice.
For that, the candidate had to write a spiel about why companies should hire young people to work for them.
“At least in our school we have practised speech writing”, Lybeck says and estimates that the test was “quite normal”.
The questions about texts contemplating for example the adaptation of summer flounder to climate change or handling large amounts of data could be answered in Finnish - or Swedish.
There were also some who took part in tests for advanced Russian (168 candidates), German (124), French (52) and Spanish (27).
The autumn matriculation exams continue on Friday, when the test in the second national language, Swedish or Finnish, is organised.
The test is organised normally in upper secondary schools, so the employees’ demonstration has no effect on it.
The matriculation examination board urges the candidates to find suitable traffic connections so that they arrive on time to the test.
It is also possible to have extra time, if the candidate is able to prove that their tardiness was not caused by their own negligence.
