Sixten Korkman wrote a chapter for the book Pääoman ajankohtaisuus (the topicality of Capital): “Marx is worth reading up on”
The crises in the world economy have resurfaced Karl Marx (1818-1883) and his magnum opus, Capital, published between 1867 and 1894, writes Yrjö Hakanen, known as the former chairman of the Communist Party of Finland (SKP), in the book published today, Marxin Pääoman ajankohtaisuus (the topicality of Marx’s Capital).
“He is being taken more seriously now than in a long time”, Hakanen writes in his preface.
Marx’s estimations about the development of capitalist economy, its globalisation and obtrusion even further to all aspects of life, the concentration of capital, and the growing importance of both monetary and imaginary capital have all been shown to be astonishingly visionary.
The book that is based on Capital seminars organised by Hakanen also has a professor of Aalto University on its list of writers: esteemed economy expert Sixten Korkman.
In the book Korkman says Marx is topical “now and forever”.
But surely the former CEO of the Research Institute of the Finnish Economy and the Centre for Finnish Business and Policy Studies is no Marxist?
Well, no.
On the telephone Korkman says that he does not think Marx is a topical economic thinker, but more an interesting social theorist.
Nowadays social sciences have become differentiated and specialised, but Marx was a philosopher, historian, sociologist, economist, journalist, political agitator and a literature connoisseur.
“The common perception is that the history of ideas is about the wrong opinions of dead men”, begins Korkman.
It is true that Marx's prophecies were wildly wrong.
Even though Marx understood the nature and meaning of the industrial revolution, he made too advanced deductions about the early stages of capitalism, contemplates Korkman.
But Korkman also sees some value in Marx’s radical stance.
“More relevant in Marx is that he asked good questions”, he says.
Now there is again discussion about things like wealth distribution that was also an interest of Marx.
“Marx can perhaps inspire someone, who wants to understand the big picture, the world that is changing because of a technical revolution”, analyses Korkman.
But Marx will not help with tomorrow’s government decisions.
According to him, capitalism was a hopeless case that should just be ceased.
But Korkman still thinks Marx is worth reading up on.
“It was impossible to read Marx in the 1970s”, says Korkman.
“Maoists and Trotskyists and other sects all hated capitalism, but they hated each other even more.”
Now the discussion is more diverse, and it is possible to approach also Marx without the ideological and political baggage of the past years.
“Every social scientist should read up on Marx’s ideologies - just like all the other classics, too”, says Korkman.
