A refugee-beating captain, an ex-drug courier and an enormously rich business man - the story of five smugglers
An enormously rich king of the smugglers, a violent boat driver, a style-conscious missionary a taxi driver who thinks he is a good guy.
These are an example of people practising human smuggling to European Union.
Criminologist working in the University of Trento, Andrea Di Nicola, and journalist Giampaolo Musumeci have met and interviewed dozens of smugglers and their “clients”, and a book called Kuoleman matkatoimisto (Travel Agency of Death) they wrote is published in Finnish this week.
In the book they present some of the tentacles of human smuggling, suggest possible solutions and introduce smugglers from different levels of the trade.
HS introduces five of them.
I’ll beat them in their place immediately
Kerkennah Island off the east coast of Tunisia are no attraction for foreign tourists, but for many Tunisians, they are a place to spend the summer.
As to their location, the islands are an excellent place also for smuggling, because the distance to the Italian island of Lampedusa is only 120 kilometres.
As a comparison: the distance between Helsinki and Tallinn is about 85 kilometres.
There, in the village of El Attaya, lives Emir - a chain-smoker captain and a father of six.
Kerkennah Islands are famous for their prawns, but it is more profitable for a fisherman to transport people.
And that is what Emir has done with his blue, 10-metre, wooden boat for already hundreds of times.
If you cram the boat, you can fit 40 people in it.
After expenses, Emir makes about 8,000 euros for one trip.
Emir has five assistants who search customers for him from all over Tunisia.
The customers come from many different countries, but during the Arab Spring, a vast number of Tunisians wanted to escape the unrest.
After that the situation quietened down, until it was rekindled along with the refugee crisis.
The customers come in small groups from the continent to Kerkennah Islands.
Emir houses them in empty houses for as long as he sees fit.
Food is given in such quantities as to keep the customers barely alive.
Housing costs around 75 euros per night, and if a customer runs out of money, it is their problem.
The boat leaves at midnight with headlights off.
First night they leave the islands, then they stop, wait for a day and go to Lampedusa the next night.
Sometimes there are rough seas, and when the waves are 20 metres high, the passenger cry and vomit.
At the destination, the human cargo is unloaded in a half an hour and Emir can return.
Emir wants to be feared.
That is why he beats his customers and, at least allegedly, beats those who oppose him to death.
In the book he tells that once when the police spotted him, he through all his passengers overboard and told them to swim to the nearest island.
“I grabbed the customers by their necks, one by one, and threw them overboard”, Emir says in the book.
The calmest passengers come from sub-Saharan Africa.
He says he must beat his own countrymen time after time.
I’ll beat them in their place immediately.
They must be shown who’s the boss here right away.
Just another taxi driver
Goran is an ordinary taxi driver in Bogovaða, Serbia.
His taxi is not very good - the start engine is already on its last legs, and the whole car has seen better days.
The most important thing for Goran’s customers, however, is the fact the car is moving in the first place, and that it is moving towards the Hungarian border.
Bogovaða is a small village of 500 inhabitants, about 60 kilometres south-west from Belgrad.
Right next to the village is a centre for asylum seekers, where mostly families are admitted.
In the woods surrounding the centre, there are men travelling without their families, taking a room in tents, lean-tos and abandoned cars - whatever they have managed to find or build.
The woods also house families that, for one reason or another, have not lodged asylum applications to Serbia.
Some are also housed in private apartments, but that is an open secret.
It is among these forest-dwellers that Goran finds most of his customers.
They are often weary - the route via the Balkans includes a great number of border crossings and they have to walk for weeks across difficult terrain, often in the mountains and in the dark.
When they finally reach Bogovaða area, the great node for human smuggling, the people are exhausted.
Goran’s customers are mainly Syrian, Afghanistani, Pakistani, Iraqi and Kurd.
The Syrian are the best customers, he tells in the book.
“They say what they have to say once and that is enough”, Goran commends.
According to him, the Africans try to haggle.
Goran doesn’t like that.
It’s blah blah blah the whole journey.
First we agree on for example 300 euros, then they lower it to 200, and finally they offer 150.
Goran emphasises that he is a nice man with a good heart.
I am not interested in money.
“I just do my work and help people”, he says in the book.
Goran says that he does this for less money than the others, and that he only takes 50 euros per person for a ride to the Hungarian border.
The distance is about 300 kilometres, most of it comfortably along the motorway.
Allegedly his colleagues ask for triple or quadruple the price.
Goran makes about 50,000 euros a year.
For a smuggler that is not a huge sum, but in Serbia it is a rather comfortable annual income.
Serbia has decreed that taxis are not allowed to drive the migrants nearer than within 12 kilometres to the Hungarian border.
Goran doesn’t care about that: he knows the routes and shortcuts, and takes his passengers within a kilometre from the border.
Then he points the customers to the right direction and drives away.
Acts of kindness
The 35-year-old Congolese man is called the Missionary, and that is not just a nick name.
He really has a protestant church in the Ugandan capital Kampala, where lots of believers that have fled from Congo come to, and a small centre, where Congolese child refugees find help.
In addition to preaching, the Missionary has a smuggling business that moves people from Congo to Europe.
He sees this as an act of kindness.
For the Missionary, it is important to look good.
He has his shoes shined many times a day and takes care that the rubber band of his white underpants can be stylishly seen from under the low waistline of his jeans.
The Missionary is proud of his new Mercedes, his ATV and his three motorcycles.
When the Missionary is not preaching, he is organising people from Congo to Uganda and onwards to Europe.
First a customer calls one of the Missionary’s five phone numbers.
He advises that you should be on the border in the morning, hide your money carefully and slip among the vendors crossing the border.
In order to reach the status of an asylum seeker or a refugee, you have to tell the Ugandan officials that you are originally from for example the warzone of northern Kivu, and that you have had to flee your home because of the violence.
Most of the time it is true, but if it is not, the Missionary will organise a new identity for his customer.
You get rid of the old identification card and get a new one to replace it.
The Missionary’s contacts in the Ugandan police help in this.
After this the customer is directed to the same place where the real asylum seekers go to: to the asylum procedure, to non-governmental organisations, finally to UN refugee organisation UNHCR.
The Missionary knows the red tape, because he himself has come to Uganda as a refugee.
He charges separately for each step: making an application to the Ugandan police is about 100 euros, delivering your papers to a humanitarian organisation around 150 and migration process for example to an European country from 4,500 to 7,000 euros.
Aluminium foil and icecubes
Tom is a novice smuggler, an ex drug courier.
The Irishman in his forties is on call in Calais on the French coast, where his job is to load people to lorries on their way to Great Britain.
To help him, there is an Afghanistani living in London, a French taxi driver and dozens of lorry drivers, who do not necessarily even know they are involved in human smuggling business.
In the night Tom and the taxi driver pick up their customers, usually 2 or 3 people, from somewhere around the centre of Calais.
The drive the motorway A26 and try to avoid the police.
If the police were to stop the car in the motorway, Tom and the driver would go straight to prison for organising illegal immigration.
Tom doesn’t want that, he has already done seven years for drugs.
The taxi pulls over, Tom and his customers run over the motorway to a lay-by where the drivers sleep before continuing over the Channel to Britain.
Tom selects a suitable lorry - you have to make sure that it is on its way to England and not to Holland, for example - and cuts the safety cable of the tarpaulin.
You have to be quiet in order to not wake up the drivers.
Sometime the driver is in on the plot, but the it’s more expensive.
When the way is clear, Tom wraps his customers in aluminium foil, the same kind that is used in the kitchen to wrap around a roast or a jacket potato.
That should prevent the police’s heat scanner from finding the hideaway.
Some use a sleeping bag filled with ice cubes for the same purpose.
Tom leaves his customers to the lorry and leaves the place hoping that the driver doesn’t notice the stowaways at least until they reach Britain.
The king of the smugglers
Muammer Küçük is one of the most famous human smugglers in the world.
The enormously rich Turk has been called a master of marketing and an undeniable king of Mediterranean illegal landings. He controls the sea routes from Turkey to the EU countries, mainly to Greece and Italy.
Küçük has been active since the 1990s, and he has continually developed new methods for smuggling.
He also has a certain competitive edge compered to other entrepreneurs: he demands the money at the destination.
One of the new methods is a luxury ship scam: luxury yachts are hired from Turkish harbours as if to take American or European families to pleasant tourist cruises for a couple of days.
In reality, the yachts are crammed with Syrians, Iraqis, Kurds and Afghanis, who are transported for a fee of 5,000 to 7,000 euros first from Istanbul overland to a harbour, and from there to Europe by sea.
Customers are kept in human storehouses, for instance in old industrial halls, until it is their time to go.
They are crammed into minibuses and taken to someplace on the coast.
They are told to hide among the vegetation and to wait for a signal.
When it is given, the ship has to be boarded quickly
The customers have to stay hidden under the deck for the whole journey.
The coast guard can only monitor the draft of the ship, since that might be the only sign of a crowd.
Food and drink are given, but the less the passengers defecate and vomit, the better.
After expenses, Küçük receives about 53,000 euros from a luxury yacht trip.
He does not take care of the practicalities, but hires the captains, recruiters, guards, housing organisers and other less important persons to take care of the work for him.
In the summer season there are at least hundreds of journeys, and Küçük makes millions.
It is believed that via a front-company, he has bought land, a pharmaceutical firm and over a hundred apartments he rents out.
Muammer Küçük was arrested in 2011 at the same with a Turkey’s Democratic Party’s representative and a certain pharmaceutical entrepreneur.
After that it seems that he has disappeared.
Correction 16. September 2015 3:10 P.M: The book ‘Kuoleman matkatoimisto’ is published this week, not next week.
