The police is preparing to receive tens of thousands of demonstrators in Helsinki - support patrols from elsewhere in Finland.
The demonstration against the Government’s cut decisions will block the centre of Helsinki on Friday, the police forecast.
According to advance information, there can be even tens of thousands of people present.
The members of SAK, Akava and STTK meet on Helsinki Railway Square at 11 o’clock.
Also police officers are expected to take part in the demonstration.
Those officers in duty are tasked with not only taking care of the emergencies and other police activities, but also securing the progress of the demonstration.
The streets leading to Railway Square are closed from motorised vehicles between about 9.30-14.
Only emergency vehicles are allowed in the area.
From Hakaniemi direction the traffic is cut off from Kaisaniemi roundabout, from western direction beginning from Mannerheimintie.
Chief Inspector Seppo Kujala, will Helsinki Police department have enough staff?
For now it seems that we do.
I do not take a stand on the police industrial action.
According to Kujala, support patrols from the rest of the country will come to Helsinki because of the demonstration.
The police do not divulge precise patrol numbers.
“There are some coming, but as a main rule, we can manage on our own”, Kujala says.
The police urges people to avoid private car use in central Helsinki on Friday.
Kujala estimates that the worst traffic jam stretches from Hakaniemi to the nuclear centre.
Traffic standstills are to be expected from morning until the early evening.
There are also many charter coaches arriving to Helsinki thanks to demonstrators from other parts of Finland.
These will not be allowed in the Railway Square.
In principle, the coaches terminate quite far.
The rest of the journey to the demonstration place has to be on foot, then”, says Kujala.
The demonstration also cuts off the public transport in Helsinki.
From the police point of view this also has a positive side.
The problem with public transport flow that normally has to be considered in these kinds of crowd meetings will now partly take care of itself.
The demonstration organisers have notified the police that there can be tens of thousands of demonstrators opposing the Government’s economic policy arriving to Helsinki.
Police expects the demonstration to progress peacefully.
“The people are ordinary employed or unemployed citizens.
Finnish people are sensible and calm”, says Kujala.
There are also local demonstrations organised around Finland on Friday.
