The demonstration on Friday is exceptional in many ways - do you remember these strikes and demonstrations?
The big demonstration on Friday organised by trade unions is interesting and exceptional in many ways.
For instance, it does not have a very good reference in Finnish political history, says sociology professor emeritus Martti Siisiäinen from University of Jyväskylä.
It is no wonder that the trade unions are protesting.
If they would not, they would be just putting their arms up in front of the government, says Siisiäinen.
The very right-winger government has struck to the central points of Finnish traditional corporatism - and also to those points that have been essential to the development of Finnish welfare state.
The government’s hard measures interfere with contract law.
There are many characteristics that indeed point in the direction that this is an attempt to bring the trade unions to their knees.
At the same time, the trade unions should take a look in the mirror.
The mirror is needed for instance for the fact that the trade unions are far from having all the employees’ support for Friday’s demonstrations.
What is new is the strict polarisation the demonstration creates in that group the trade unions would like to take part in the demonstration.
Unemployed from across Finland demonstrated at the Parliament House in November 1993.
If we are looking for a comparison for Friday’s demonstration, one such could be found in the mega demonstration of the unemployed, the so-called Turning Point Thursday of 1993, says Siisiäinen.
The demonstration, organised during the worst recession, brought together 20,000 unemployed.
Esko Aho's (Centre Party) government struggled from one labour market crisis to another.
It was said that the relationship between the Finnish government and employee organisations had never been as bad as during Aho's right-wing government.
Now the relationship between the government and the trade unions is maybe even worse than during the Turning Point Thursday.
And besides, Finland’s current government is the most right-wing ever, says Siisiäinen.
The current government coalition is interesting also in that way that it is so strictly right-wing, despite what the True Finns say.
During their election success of 2011, the party still had elements from the old labour movement.
Thousands of demonstrators are expected on Friday.
The demonstration also stops parts of public traffic, and possibly closes kindergartens and schools.
Even though the demonstratin does not have the undivided support of the employees, it can be the biggest in years.
In recent years, there have been about 300 demonstrations every year in Helsinki.
There are all kinds of topics.
Traditionally Finnish trade unions’ demonstrations have been quite peaceful, even though the practices have become harder in recent years.
Traditionally one avoids conflict and is law-abiding in a Finnish demonstration.
The demonstrators try to avoid damaging or destroying propers, says Siisiäinen.
The end of the 1990s brought new impetus, though.
The demonstration culture was changed.
The EU membership ruffled the farmers enough to make them hurl chicken eggs, and the police prepared for thrown pig shit.
The firemen strike of 1998 lasted for three months.
Also for example pilots and air traffic controllers had arresting strikes.
Do you remember these strikes and demonstrations?
Metal and electricity strikes in the 1970s
The most significant strikes in the 1970s were the metal strike of 1971 and the power plant and electricity strike of 1977.
70,000 metal workers took part in the strike.
The reconciliation board’s proposal ended the strike after it had lasted 7 weeks.
The metal workers got a 16 percent raise.
The electricity strike of spring 1977 lasted 49 days and caused power cuts around the country.
Turning Point Thursday in 1993
About 20,000 people, many of them unemployed because of the recession, gathered in front of the Parliamentary House on 4th November, 1993, to demonstrate for work.
The firemen were on strike for three months in 1998
The firemen strike was one of the longest, if not the longest, national strike in the 1990s.
The farmers protested against EU in 1994 and 1999
Police were caught in an egg rain, as the farmers protested agains EU in 1994.
“Learn the hard way, EU finishes”, is a translation of one of the slogans.
The farmers dumped tons of snow on Esplanadi.
Also the Helsinki EU Summit in 1999 moved the farmers to protest and burn bales of hay in front of the summit venue.
The nurses were on strike in 1983 and 1995
The nurses were on strike for about a month in 1995.
Previously they had been on strike in 1983.
The strike of 1995 was shaded by a few of deaths that happened during the strike.
The Union of Health and Social Care Professionals (Tehy) threatened with a strike and nurses’ mass resignations in 2007.
The threat of mass resignations finally speeded up the negotiations to reach an outcome.
The doctors were on strike in 2001
“Doctors forced to strike”, is a translation of the doctors’ strike slogan in 2001.
The strike of municipal health centre and hospital doctors lasted about 5 months and gave rise to discussion about how strikes can compromise patient safety.
After the strike the public sector gave doctors a raise.
The students were on the move in 2013
About 5,000 students marched for student allowance in Helsinki, from the Senate Square to the Parliamentary House, in 2013.
