Racist attack against foreign students’ residence in Kitee - House meant as a reception centre smeared in Salo
On Saturday’s early hours a racist attack was made in a foreign students’ residence in Kitee, north Karelia.
Unlike the police had previously said, this was not an accommodation facility for underage asylum seekers, but a residence for foreign students that have been a bit longer in Finland, says a teacher of the Evangelical Folk High School of Kitee, Heidi Luukkainen.
The windows and walls of the folk high school housing facility were smeared with racists signs, such as swastikas, and a metal object was thrown across one of the windows in the housing facility, states the Eastern Finland Police Department.
According to Luukkainen, who is the lead teacher of the folk high school’s social guarantee for young people training, there were about 10 people in the building during the attack.
“It was the weekend, and adults are free to move about, so some of them might have been elsewhere, too", says Luukkainen.
There are people of 12 different nationalities accommodated in the folk high school.
They include students, who have already been a while in Finland, and recently arrived underage asylum seekers.
All the people inside the smeared building had an A-status.
“Some of them study in an adult primary school, some pursue vocational studies and some study Finnish”, describes Luukkainen.
A-status is a so-called continuous residence permit that can be granted for four years at a time to a foreigner, who has already spent some time in Finland.
The Eastern Finland Police Department investigates the attack as vandalism and disturbance of domestic peace.
According to Luukkainen, a briefing for students was organised on Monday, with the necessary interpreters present.
“There is no panic, and nobody has wanted to leave.
We have had foreign students for almost twenty years, and this is the first time something like this happens”, says Luukkainen.
According to Luukkainen, the smears have already been cleaned from the walls.
At least three men are suspected in connection to the incident and they were driving a light-coloured passenger car.
“I think this is just a young people’s whim for a weekend night, since this topic has been on the surface.
Nothing more serious”, says Luukkainen.
Also in Salo a hospital meant to be turned into a reception centre was smeared.
The incident took place last week.
It was reported by MTV on its website oon Tuesday evening.
A swastika was drawn on the hospital wall, with English words “You are not welcome” written underneath.
The offense has been reported to the police.
Correction 15.9. At 16.02. Police's false information about the status and age of the people living in the target building were corrected.
