The state stops the Y-train service to Karjaa - passengers resent this, “completely idiotic”
The Y-train service from Helsinki to Raasepori’s Karjaa will come to a halt in March.
At Helsinki main railway station, many passengers in the early evening train of the said service resented the news.
This service halt will especially impact people from Siuntio, says a resident Torbjörn Bengstöm.
This is completely idiotic, since the population keeps on growing, and working people need a fast and flexible connection to Helsinki.
This cannot result from anything else but political will - or lack of it.
On HSTV interview video, Bengstöm promises to ride a tractor to the capital if needed.
There are changes in trains also elsewhere in Uusimaa.
The H and R services that use the main line will be connected to a new R-line.
Purola station in Järvenpää and Nuppulinna in Tuusula will be closed.
On Tuesday, the Ministry of Transport and Communication together with VR published information about the routes the Ministry is going to purchase train traffic services from in the next contract period.
The contract period changes at the turn of the year, with closed routes in the whole country.
The new four-year contract will be finalised in the autumn, and later approved by the appropriations committee.
Siuntio resident Bengström sees the state's train cuts as short-sighted solution.
They are making the same mistakes again they have done before, repeating them most systematically.
Then follows the regret.
Y-train is used also other people besides Raasepori and Siuntio residents, since it is fast and does not stop at every station.
Anniina Pöyry from Espoo feels bad for those that have to travel farther from the city area.
“It is especially unfortunate for those, who have to replan their journeys”, she said while climbing aboard the Y-train.
Some relief is coming.
There will probably be a new train for coastal line to replace the Y-train in Helsinki Regional Transport Authority’s (HSL) area, that is, to go as far as Kirkkonummi.
This will mean more costs for HSL, or in practice for the municipalities in the region and their taxpayers.
“We will now begin to look into different options and their effects on the service level and ticket prices”, said the CEO of HSL, Suvi Rihtniemi.
It is impossible to yet precisely estimate the costs.
Rihtniemi says that based ot the number of passengers, Y-train has cost about a million a year for HSL, but naturally much more to the ministry.
The prospective main line R-train will skip two stations.
Instead the number of trains in Ainola and Saunakallio will double.
A total of 28 small stations and a number of routes will stop across the country.
The ministry will stop buying train traffic services from the Joensuu-Nurmes, Tampere-Keuruu and Jyväskylä-Haapamäki-Seinäjoki routes.
Pieksämäki-Joensuu route will be shortened to a Pieksämäki-Varkaus route.
Trains will be reduced on routes Riihimäki-Lahti, Hanko-Karjaa, Kouvola-Kotka harbour and Kajaani-Oulu.
There are over half a million journeys a year made on the reduced trains, as the total number of journeys in the traffic services purchased by the ministry is about nine millions.
The new contract is meant to save the state 12.3 million euros annually.
The annual contract value is about 27.5 million euros.
