The world champion rejoiced as the union disciplined Norwegian ski-rooster: “That's upright”
The ski king of Norway, Petter Northug, has crossed the border of propriety, at least in one of his colleagues’ books.
Northug and Norway’s national ski federation have discussed his athlete agreement through the whole summer and autumn, just like last year.
Even though the federation has offered Northug a better deal than for the other athletes, even that has not been enough for this multiple world champion and Olympic gold medal winner.
As a result of this deal disagreement, the ski federation of Norway decided to drop Northug from the next season’s World Cup.
The decision was praised by the double world champion Astrid Jacobsen.
She said she is happy the federation decided to discipline the ski rooster.
“Thank you for showing some backbone”, Jacobsen wrote on her Facebook profile.
“We cannot allow for one active athlete to be exempt from working for the federation’s sponsor”, she continued.
The argument between the ski federation of Norway and Northug is about money.
It seems that Northug would like to be away from the national team for part of the season in order to be able to promote his own sponsor.
Jacobsen said she is also happy to represent a federation that takes care also of the future generations and does not let one athlete to play solo.
At the same time she reminded people that the federation has given Northug both economic as well other privileges for several years.
I know this, because I have been part of the system.
Jacobsen does not approve of one athlete having a whole different set of rules just because he is the best.
On Tuesday Northug published his own announcement ensuring that he wants to represent in Norway’s colours also next season in the World Cup, as well as in the World Championship and the Olympics after that.
During her career, Astrid Jacobsen won all in all six World Championship medals, two of them golden.
Last winter she was part of the team that won gold for relay in Falun.
