Finnair cancel 16 domestic flights on Friday, Alkos will be closed for a couple of hours
One flight is cancelled already on Thursday and 15 on Friday.
A list of cancelled flights is available on Finnair website.
Finavia says it attempts to take care of the operations on airports with the managerial staff.
It can be expected that there will be rushes and delays in security checks and other service points.
Demonstration closes streets in central Helsinki
The Friday demonstration closes streets in central Helsinki.
The police says the streets leading to the Railway Square are closed from cars between 9.30-14.
From Mannerheimintie direction the cars are not allowed  on Kaivokatu, Postikatu or Töölönlahdenkatu towards the railway station.
From Hakaniemi direction via Unioninkatu the traffic is directed to Unioninkatu from Kaisaniemi roundabout.
According to police, the closing time depends on the number of people participating in the demonstration.
Only emergency vehicles are allowed in the area.
Metro and tram drivers in the demonstration the whole Friday
Metro and tram drivers take part in the Friday’s demonstration from the beginning of the early morning traffic until the end of night traffic.
In the evening the association for metro and tram staff (Raitio- ja metrohenkilökunnan yhdistys) informed STT about the matter.
Most of the Alkos are closed for two hours, also some post offices are closed
The demonstration on Friday will also cause disruptions to Posti services.
Significant delays can be expected for example in day mail delivery.
Most of Posti service points will be closed.
Finnish Red Cross will take care of the blood deliveries despite of the strike.
Also meal deliveries as well as hospital deliveries and laboratory samples are being taken care of.
Topical information about the services is available on Posti website.
Most of Finnish Alkos will close their doors for two hours on Friday.
Service Union United PAM has instructed employees to stop working between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.
PAM has also advised people working in grocery shops to take part in the trade unions’ demonstration.
Representatives from SOK and Kesko said to Helsingin Sanomat that they attempt to keep the shops open with the managerial staff, if necessary.
According to Kesko, there is no information yet about the possible closing of individual shops.
Helsinki nurseries partly closed
Nurseries in Helsinki will not operate at their full capacity on Friday, informs Helsinki Department of Early Education and Care.
On account of the trade unions’ protest, day care is possibly concentrated to certain nurseries, and there will be no organised club activities in nurseries or playgrounds.
Round-the-clock nurseries and groups for intellectually and multiply disabled children will be open.
In addition, afternoon activities for intellectually disabled and autistic school children will be organised normally.
The Department of Early Education and Care promised to inform more about the operation changes tomorrow.
