Media researcher: Sipilä is taking a big risk
According to Sipilä, varied channels are needed in communication, and the Prime Minister’s television and radio speeches are one channel among others.
This kind of a channel for direct speech will be needed in the future, too.
This will not be the last time, Sipilä told the reporters in the parliament.
Sipilä did not yet want to estimate how recurrent these premier’s speeches broadcasted through television and radio are going to be.
According to Sipilä, the speeches will not necessarily always be broadcast from Yle channels.
If there are other channels available, we will see then.
Tonight we are using this channel, Sipilä said.
According to Sipilä, situation of the Finnish economy is so dire that it requires to hold a broadcasted speech to the citizens.
This whole complex of issues currently in question is quite intricate and calls for a longer reasoning.
That is why we chose this channel, explained Sipilä.
The speech will be broadcast between 9.05 and 9.20 PM both via TV1 and Radio Suomi.
It is also available in Yle Areena.
Sipilä is taking a big risk
Media researcher hopes that Sipilä’s televised speech is not a symptom of the government’s more general turn inwards.
Is the goal to take the right to define public discussion more tightly in their own hands and to turn down the framing of questions in the public discussion? Anu Koivunen, a professor in the University of Stockholm contemplates.
This reminds me of the Foreign Minister (Timo) Soini's recent comment about how he will not follow the media’s agenda, nor will he let it define himself.
In the name of democratic discussion and publicity I hope that these matters are not related.
Koivunen understands that the commercial media is indignant about Sipilä’s announcement.
It would be odd, if the media would not react.
In a democracy, the political decision makers’ communicational styles are not something just to be announced.
It is the job of media representatives by definition to strive not to take politicians’ agendas as given.
According to Koivunen, a televised speech is a big risk for Sipilä.
Sipilä should introduce something new and special in his speech, in order to fulfill the exceptionally high expectations set for the speech.
Are we going to get more of that what we have already heard?
Or is he able to adopt a different tone, different manner or different words, or to say something new?
Koivunen says that if all there will be is just same old, we have to wonder the motivation behind this grand gesture and why Yle allocated exceptional time for it?
This is a risk for Yle, as well, in the sense that if this turns out to be not a special situation but just a routine speech among others.
The danger is that Yle is labelled as a medium for politicians or the parliament or the government, which would most definitely not be in line with Yle's interests or general policy.
A smart move from Sipilä
In Sipilä's forthcoming speech important will also be what the Prime Minister leaves unsaid, emphasises the media researcher.
Research coordinator of University of Jyväskylä, Heikki Kuutti, says that one should pay special attention to what Sipilä discusses and what he will not.
According to Kuutti, a televised speech is a smart move from Sipilä, since this way he is able to highlight his own views without discordant notes.
This way the message has a large audience without any journalistic filters, unlike in a press conference, where journalists are able to ask critical questions.
Sipilä overrides the media and addresses the people directly.
The danger is that media interprets parts of the speech in a wrong way, since there is no possibility to ask further questions.
According to Kuutti it is vital how Sipilä presents himself in the television - is he sweating, are his hands shaking.
He compares Sipilä to a father figure, who is now telling the people what to they need to do.
If Sipilä can put his points well, it can work.
The situation is different from one where the government would be informing the public, since this is more like one human being speaking to another.
This is what (the President of the United States Barack) Obama and associates do regularly.
Quite exceptional
Parliamentary researcher Erkka Railo thinks the Prime Minister’s speech to the citizens is quite exceptional.
According to him, it is something that has not taken place in decades - that the Prime Minister directly addresses the people.
Exceptional times require exceptional measures, Railo says.
The researcher believes that by acting this way, the Prime Minister wants to make Finns sympathetic to the tightenings that will come.
Employee associations will organise a demonstration on Friday and strikes against the government’s actions.
The Left Alliance leader Paavo Arhinmäki said via Twitter that Sipilä could make his speech about the situation of the nation also in the parliament as a Prime Minister’s announcement, which would allow for discussion.
The leader of the Social Democratic Party Antti Rinne declares that he will challenge Sipilä to a dialogue.
There is no time for monologues.
It has been almost six months since the election.
One cannot hide for ever, Rinne writes via Twitter.
