The reason for Minnesota family murder is still unclear - the father of the family was facing a lawsuit
The police of South Lake Minnetonka has for almost a week now investigated the family murder that took place in Greenwood, Minnesota.
A family of five was found dead from their home on September 10, and a couple of days later the police confirmed the shooter to be the father of the family Brian Scott Short, 45.
After first killing his wife and three children with a shotgun, Brian Short shot himself in the house’s garage.
Dead for days
The family was found after the school was beginning to worry about the children's absence.
Based on this notification, the police went to inspect the house and found the Short family dead from different corners of the huge house.
According to StarTribune, it is possible that the victims had been dead already for days.
House worth of millions and a successful company
South Lake Minnetonka Police Chief Mike Siitari says the investigation of the case is still ongoing.
The motive behind the bloody deed is still unclear.
The shooter Brian Short was a successful entrepreneur and he had created his fortune creating a social media website for nurses, AllNurses.com.
In 2014 StarTribune interview Short told there were 4 million unique visitors on the website every week.
I have had 50 buyouts during the last ten years.
I have turned them all down.
I do, however, have many ideas I want to realise.
Maybe I will send the company at some point, but not yet.
The success could be seen in for example that in 2011 Short family bought a mansion in Greenwood for $2 million.
The real estate site Zillow advertises the property as a car collector’s dream: the house has not only 12 rooms, but also a garage for 8 cars.
Lawsuit pending
According to StarTribune, the father of the family was facing a lawsuit, though.
Achieve Test Prep, who offer different prepping courses, had sued him for some comments on AllNurses.com website.
Achieve Test Prep alleged that Short’s website failed to delete defamatory comments about prep courses, thus sending business to a competitor.
According to StarTribune, it is very unclear whether the lawsuit would have had much significance on Short's business.
