Iron Sky 2 is now the most expensive non-animated Finnish film
The budget for Iron Sky: The Coming Race, directed by Timo Vuorensola, is 17 million euros.
The shooting of the film will begin in October in Belgium.
Director Timo Vuorensola begins shooting Iron Sky 2 in October in Belgium.
The sequel for the sci-fi film Iron Sky, Iron Sky: The Coming Race will be the most expensive non-animated film production in Finland with its 17 million euro budget.
Previously it was Jalmari Helander’s Big Game that had the title for the most expensive film in Finland.
Also the Angry Birds animation currently in preparation will rise past Iron Sky 2 when it is finished, since the budget for the film is over a 100 million euros.
The shooting of the film, directed by Timo Vuorensola and produced by Tero Kaukomaa, begins in October in AED Studios’ facility near Antwerp and will last for eight weeks.
The director Timo Vuorensola leaves for Belgium already next week.
I’m not afraid of the huge budget.
I've been really amazingly relaxed!
I have such a relaxed feeling about the script, since I know exactly what the film should be like.
Everybody in the work group seem to realise we are doing something incredible-
It awesome to go to Belgium.
Even though we’ve a tight schedule, I’ve no fear.
I more excited, and can’t wait to be able to show this movie to the public, he told to Iltalehti.
Originally the budget of the film was supposed to be 8-10 million, but as the script developed, so did the budget.
The budget is big, but so is the story.
I could put 100 million into this film, because every camera angle and special effect cost so much.
Now everything is so tight that there is no slack anywhere.
Today, on Wednesday, the production company of the film, Iron Sky Universe, launched a crowdfunding campaign and bonds with an annual interest of 4 to 8 per cent.
The final interest depends on the supply and demand during the campaign.
The company will repay the loan after two years the latest.
The action film stars for example Udo Kier, Tom Green and Vladimir Burlakov.
