Horoscope 16.9.2015 - Ilta-Sanomat
You are trying someone’s patience.
They are no paper, but you know they are not as hard as a rock.
You are equal in many things, such as vitality.
You are thinking how things will progress.
You have the strength and will to make them succeed.
Also important is to be kind towards yourself and others.
You are quick, but not quick enough to make certain someone to understand your side of a thing.
They are slow, and don’t want to be guided not even with you.
You are stamping your foot with someone, because a thing will not progress.
There is no certain way to approach it, but at least you know you have a common goal.
You have competed with someone.
You are not competing in a traditional sense, though, but you want to know what kind of a person they really are.
What you assume is true.
That is why you can boast about it.
Today you will have a chance to deal with someone.
Do it, even though you have but little time.
Someone is a peculiar person.
You will understand that at the latest when they open their mouth.
Gestures and facial expressions also tell a lot already before that.
Someone swerves in front of you.
You do not notice anything particular about the situation, but there is an indefinable atmosphere around it.
You know where you are heading.
Your experience is correct, even though someone will show you that they are much more in the know than you are.
The need to underline is not the only thing that gets you in them.
Your readiness for different tasks has grown during the years.
Someone sees potential in you.
It strokes your ego.
You continue thinking, whether it will develop into anything.
You are near the essential.
You are very much conscious of where you are moving and whom do you want to spend your time with.
You do not remain stationary but want to move forward.
You emphasise a certain thing about you so much that a certain person starts to talk to you because of it.
The discussions seem to have no end.
That shows how interesting you are.
