Point of view: A lousy play underway in Ässät
Sports Director Toivola scripted a sequel unsuitable for Head Coach Rautakallio, writes Santtu Silvennoinen from Tampere.
It is a classic.
In 1976, Sylvester Stallone wrote a script to Rocky, in which he starred himself.
Sensationally the underdog stood up to heavyweight world champion, Apollo Creed.
Even though he lost the title match, Rocky evoked great sympathy.
Thirty years after Rocky's premiere, Mika Toivola scripted a restless Cinderella story to Pori.
The nameless and wooden-handed bunch of spades surprised everyone by advancing to the season finals in 2006.
The team was full of Rocky-like nameless but tenacious underdogs.
Valkoinen intiaani, Porin Matti and Pele Peltonen were some of the names.
For the playoffs, the players dyed their hair red and cut it to a Mohawk hairdo.
Toivola turned blonde.
An excellent TV commentator JP Jalo named the coach Neumann.
Ässät won silver.
Toivola was one of the heroes.
The scriptwriter Toivola believes that this season's new work will function the same way as ten years ago.
Working as a Sports director for Ässät, he has built the spade deck on a foundation of bd bois.
Semir Ben-Amor and Josh Gratton have thrashed blokes in the rink like Rocky thrashed pig carcasses in a slaughterhouse.
Masi Marjamäki, Mikko Viitanen, Juha Kiilholma and Matti Kuparinen all have their merits outside puck handling.
Toivola has forgotten that in Rocky VI, main part is played by Pekka Rautakallio.
Karri Kivi has christened Rautakallio Sean Connery.
In Toivola’s script of Rocky, Rautakallio is as clumsy a protagonist as Connery would have been in the original work of 1976.
There is nothing Rocky in Rautakallio besides his nickname.
Rautakallio’s game philosophy does not include rushing or minor clamouring.
He values hard play, but playing hard is different than playing dirty.
Last season, Garret Stafford from Ässät checked Jere Karjalainen from Tappara to the head.
He got 2+10 minutes from the referees, but Rautakallio removed him from the play.
He did not merit one minute!
Only those that deserve it are allowed to play.
I do not approve that kind of play, and it is not part of team Ässät hockey, snarled Rautakallio annoyed after the game for Satakunnan Kansa.
The Ässät team for the season is weirdly constructed.
There are juniors, veterans, police and those who rush into things.
There are practically no key players in their prime.
It is no wonder then that the Head Coach has complained about the lack of skills.
How much have you been able to affect the player selections, Pekka Rautakallio?
The events of the last season affect the selection and, unfortunately, the situation at the player market was quite limited, Rautakallio answes diplomatically.
Simmering beneath the surface.
Rautakallio, a 1953 model, is, as far as is known, interested in transferring to Toivola's post as a Sports Director.
Both the men’s contracts end this spring.
The team's balance in three league matches has been the same number of defeats, with a goal difference of 1-6.
Toivola should have opted out of writing the script for the sequel.
