Finnish UFC start was disappointed with youn people’s violent fad: You create hate
The ultimate fighter with Kurdish origin, Makwan Amirkhani, published a video on Facebook on which he appeals to especially immigrant youn people.
Makwan Amirkhani gave an important speech against young people’s street fights.
Amirkhani, who was born in Iran and moved to Finland in the age of five with his family, has so far won both of his professional matches in the most prestigious ultimate fighting league UFC.
Amirkhani says he received a message asking him to check out one Instagram account.
There were uploaded videos of young people fighting with extreme violence.
Amirkhani says he is disappointed with this fad of young people.
26-Year-old Amirkhani has over 62,000 followers on Facebook.
Guys are kicking those on the ground, sitting on top of someone and hitting frantically without any thoughts for consequences, what will happen when you do these kinds of videos, grieves Amirkhani.
Hard to make any more excuses
Some of the young people on the video are immigrants.
According to inspector of Helsinki police, Jarmo Heinonen, both immigrant and originally Finnish youn people have uploaded fighting videos to social media.
It’s especially that you are fighting on the street.
You are making lives of so many other immigrants so much more difficult here in Finland, complains Amirkhani, who lives in Turku.
Amirkhani reminds people that there are Finnish websites that look for crimes committed by immigrants.
There are seriously a lot of these individual cases.
It’s a bit hard to make up any more excuses, boys.
You should remember you are still in a foreign country and you will be guests here for quite some time.
This is a bit different way to say thank you for letting you stay here, says Amirkhani.
Amirkhani urges the young to remember the people close to them.
If they end up as target for someone's racism, you have to blame yourselves for that.
So guys, think and think again before you take part in that.
Amirkhani says that violent actions give ammunition to racism.
You create that kind of hate in me that I don’t like myself.
The things with you are already pretty bad and you are certainly not making them any better, Amirkhani concludes.
