Russian politician published proof: I did not get stuck in a tank hatch for hours!
Allegedly this unusual incident happened in Nizhny Tagil, where the Russia Arms Expo 2015 was held, presenting products of Russian war industry.
Over the last few days, the Russian media have spread colourful claims stating Russian Emergency Situations Ministry had to work five hours releasing sizeable Zotov from the tank hatch.
Later Zotov has made all the effort to deny the information.
He even published a photo on his own, public Facebook page, showing him peeking from the armoured vehicle in a rather good mood, and at least according to these pictures, he did not get stuck or angry.
Complete nonsense.
Let us start with me not going inside a battle tank, since it was an infantry fighting vehicle BMP-3.
I am a former soldier myself, lieutenant colonel, I have served in Ural.
I went inside, took a look around and calmly exited, Zatov stated to Komsomolskaya Pravda.
I did not get stuck and I most definitely did not spend five hours in that position, he said.
To Russian army’s TV channel Zotov explained that he was admiring Russian new technology in the expo, since he is a former regular himself.
That is why I was interested what is inside the vehicles, I was admiring our technology.
And I exited through the rear hatch, he said.
I visited all the tanks.
And I will definitely visit all the tanks and all the infantry fighting vehicles also in the next expo, promised Zotov.
Zotov also called the journalist writing about the matter an idiot.
One idiot wrote, everyone else repeated.
No such thing happened.
I went in, and I came out.
I am tall and robust, but nothing like me getting stuck in a tank did not happen, he said to radio Russkaya sluzhba novostei.
Zotov’s claims are supported by the fact that there are no published photos about the alleged incident, even though a total of 50.000 people visited the arms expo during a few days.
The claim about Zotov getting stuck originated from a story on Bloknot.ru website, where it was described that Zotov struggled trying to get out of the tank hatch, finally threatening to shoot everyone around him, unless he can escape.
Later Bloknot published a sequel story, in hwich the expo organisers share their own view about what happened.
Everybody is just used to seeing soldiers quickly jumping out of armoured vehicles.
But due to his large size, parliamentarian Zotov simply took his time coming out.
But under no circumstances did he sit there for five hours, said the expo coordinator Aleksandr Pisarevskiy to Bloknot.
