Comment: Great demonstration at risk of flopping - “It does feel a bit funny to shake your fist”
It does feel a bit funny to shake your fist if you already have a reconciliation paper in your pocket, writes Pekka Tiinanen.
The mood varies from side to side in the salary earners’ camp.
What is the goal, to shout the Government over or to settle with it?
On Monday the leaders of SAK were raging with righteous anger against the Government of the Republic.
They threatened to shut down whole Finland.
The bluster spread among Akava members, too.
The Trade Union of Education OAJ threatened to close schools and nurseries.
On Tuesday OAJ was cancelling: no schools or nurseries are completely closed.
On Wednesday the Chairman of Finnish Confederation of Salaried Employees STTK, Antti Palola (Social Democrats), appeared in public in a placatory way.
He told he had been in contact with the Government and was drafting an alternative proposal for the five per cent productivity leap required by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä (Centre).
Akava Presiden Sture Fjäder (Coalition) immediately rushed to inform that his reconciliation paper is already ready.
At first the SAK office did not utter a word.
It is hard for President Lauri Lyly (Social Democrats) to fraternise, as it was just on Monday the union leaders told to stop the country on Friday.
Finally Lyly did announce that SAK work committee will meet next Monday to discuss the situation and that SAK is looking for solutions to “open the labour market lock”.
In order to put together employees’ common proposal, SAK needs to give in and accept the five per cent productivity leap as a goal.
It is no wonder that Palola’s STTK has good relations to Sipilä’s government.
Palola’s right hand, STTK director of public affairs Jukka Ihanus used to be special adviser for the Central party prime ministers Matti Vanhanen and Mari Kiviniemi.
Palola defines that the Government’s trade union knowledge has gotten better all the time.
Coincidence or not, but Palola’s outing did take some wind out the sails of those stopping Finland, the figurehead of which is AKT's Marko Piirainen (Social Democrats).
It does feel a bit funny to shake your fist if you already have a reconciliation paper in your pocket.
Edited 6.00 p.m.: Added information about Lyly’s comments.
