The United States’ Fed will next attempt to tighten the monetary policy
The next recession in the United States will begin in its quickest in less than a year, but more likely within three years after the country’s central bank Fed will begin to raise its interests after a long period.
And as for the decline in the financial markets, it will begin before the next recession.
Fed has hinted at beginning the rate hikes possibly already this week and by the end of the year at the latest.
That means the next recession can be here as soon as by next autumn and the financial markets’ rate crash before tat.
Or at least that will happen, if the largest economy in the world and the financial markets function in the same way as before - and if they react to Fed’s financial limitations the same way as before.
These are the conclusions the London market research strategists of German Deutsche Bank Jim Reid, Nick Burns and Seb Parker came to in their study of long-term market and economy cycles.
The bank distributed the study report of over 60-pages, Long-Term Asset Return Study, to their international major customers last week.
The strategists who created the study and the report do not try to make anyone believe that they know exactly when the Fed will begin to raise its interests or what happens after that in economy and markets.
Instead they demonstrate how the economy and the markets have previously behaved during and after Fed interest hikes, using cool facts and calculations.
In addition to historical observations they also analyse which essential variables of economy and the financial markets are now on the same or different level than during earlier interest hikes - and what are the possible implications.
It is evident that both the economy and the financial markets are now weaker to withstand a rate hike than ever before since the 1950s.
Perhaps a less than a year to a recession
The leaders deciding on Fed's monetary policy and its prevailing setting have during last summer and early autumn hinted that the time might be ripe to raise the rates.
The first rate hike in over nine years can come already this week.
The matter is settled during Wednesday and Thursday, as the Fed board's so called open market committee convenes for its two-day meeting to decide on the matter.
The previous time Fed raised its so called Fed funds key interest rate was in June 2006.
That marked the end of two years of series of relatively regular but minor 0.25 percentage point rate hikes that the Fed used to raise its interest from 1.25 to 5.25 percent.
The symptoms of the financial markets began in 2007 with difficulties in the most high-risk housing financing, and a year later the financial crisis widened to a global doomsday nightmare.
The great recession arrived in 2009.
The last time serious adversities of financial markets and real economy began slower than what has been typical after earlier Fed interest hikes.
In proportion, the adversities were harder and harsher than since the 1930s depression.
The Deutsche strategists have screened the upturns and downfalls of the greatest economies in the world as well as the changes in the financial markets since 1950, for some parts even from the beginning of the 19th century onwards.
They report Fed's rate hikes and their economic and financial impacts since the 1950s.
The recession has begun the quickest in less than a year after the first rate hike, most of the time in less than three years, and on average in less than three and a half years.
The increase in prices in the financial markets has ended within a year or two after Fed interest hikes have begun.
Fed has alternated between rising and reducing their key interest rate since the beginning of the 1950s in dozen cycles of different length.
Each time has, for some parts, varied from others, and there are relatively little occasions in the examination, so it is hardly possible to reach any certain conclusions about the impacts of the next rate hikes.
The strategists remind us that this time many things are different.
And not just better.
Interest have been too low for too long
The pivotal factors contributing to, not to mention the culprits for the financial crisis cannot necessarily be unquestionably discovered even with decades of research.
But there are three circumstances leading to the crisis and increasing its destructive power that are clear somewhat beyond doubt:
1) Fed, European Central Bank ECB and other largest central banks of the world held their key interest rates on a too low a level for too long a time in the 2000s.
They were patching the marks left by the techno bubble and at the same time stoking up the next.
2) The size of a debt of different parts of financial and real economies, accumulated over decades and already too large, grew even larger because of the overly lax monetary policy of the central banks.
The so far largest debt bubble in the economic history was created.
3) The madly cheap debt funding, packed especially to financial economy almost without restraints, inflated the largest rate bubbles in the so far economic history for most of the sectors of financial markets, from shares to real estate, bonds and commodities.
There will probably be no severe arguments either about the fact that the financial markets that have increased to heights due to more and more complicated debt leverage were in an unusually dangerous and unstable state the last time Fed and other central banks increased the rates.
Neither the financial structures set up with debt leverage nor evaluation bubbles did last but a certain time after the rate hikes had begun and the costs of debt funding had started to rise.
The risks were materialised as a financial crisis, and a great recession followed.
A bigger bubble and more debt
The Deutsche Bank strategists will not guess what happens next, but they give us food for thought by mentioning for instance the following facts:
1) Fed and other large central banks have now held their monetary policy setting even lighter and even longer than before the financial crisis.
If the interest rates were too low for a long time before the crisis, they now have been even lower for even longer.
2) Incurring of a debt has not, for a long time, been as madly cheap as it was ten years ago, but debt money is now literally cheaper than free at its cheapest.
That way the debt load of financial and real economies has not lightened, but the different parts of economy are churning under a considerably heavier debt load than before the financial crisis, or for that matter, ever before.
3) The liquidity from the central banks that has started off cheaper and more fast-flowing than before has mostly stayed at the financial markets and has dragged the key types of securities and properties to their highest peak since before the financial crisis or ever.
And the strategists are killing the mood not only with the warning signs of financial markets, but also by noting that not even the United States’ economy has recovered yet from the financial crisis and the heaviest recession in decades like it earlier has.
The euro area has recovered barely at all.
In other words, the real economy is unusually weak, but respectively the pressure and risks of the financial markets are clearly larger than before the financial crisis, as Fed will next start to cut off their money.
Maybe the outlook of Albert Edwards, a strategist from a French bank Societe Generale, is not as weird as it may seem at a first glance.
For quite some time now, he has coached the international investor customers as to the Fed’s next reversal:
First they raise the interest rates, then the financial bubbles burst - and soon it is time for Fed to hasten to put out the financial fires with even bigger QE money hoses.
