Olga Temonen to play Sipe Santapukki’s mother
Olga Temonen reveals tha if she had met his husband Tuukka as a teenager, they would have had nothing in common.
Olga Temonen is acting under his husband’s direction for the first time.
Yes, in the film I will play the role of my husband’s friend’s mother.
In a way it feels crazy, laughs actor and producer Olga Temonen.
She has been married to the Apulanta ex-bassist and director Tuukka Temonen since 2008.
Previously, the couple has often worked together, too, but this is the first time Olga will act under Tuukka’s direction.
Her role in the film protraying the early years of Apulanta, Teit meistä kauniin, is drummer Sipe Santapukki’s mother Sirkka.
Sirkka encourages and supports his son, even though his father Risto (played by Lorenz Backmann) tries to be the voice of reason.
The more I have come to know my real role model Sirkka, the easier it seems to be to play the role.
She is a great person and I am grateful for Tuukka for entrusting me with the role.
Olga had met Sirkka already before the film project, but after that the pair has become considerably closer.
They have met, talked in the telephone and sent messages.
Sirkka has been a great help.
We have gone through their history from different angles.
Sirkka luckily also understands that drama is drama and the truth might have to be coloured in a bit.
Olga emphasises that Sirkka was almost the only one in Heinola to blindly believe that Apulanta will be the biggest band in Finland.
It was the recession in the 90s and living was really bleak.
The probability for someone to really make it is pretty slight, but Sirkka had some kind of an intuition, and she was right.
Olga tells that she had heard a lot of stories from Tuukka’s adolescence already before the film plans.
The parents’ stories have at times been slightly different, though.
Well, if you are a 15-year-old teenager, how much will your parents really know about what you were doing.
Olga reveals that her own adolescence was complitely different from Tuukka’s, who was known as the infamous skater from Heinola.
Olga was an ordinary and good girl, who would have had nothing to do with the Tuukka from the film.
At most she could have secretly taken to him.
According to Olga, she has cooperated so much with Tuukka during a decade that a big project together does not scare her.
Everything has always gone super well.
Now the whole production crew will spend a month in Heinola filming.
The couple who live in Iitti will, however, often drive back home to spend the night with their small children, as the distance is not too great.
We are taking over the whole Heinola for a month.
They have welcomed us really warmly, just asking which streets should be emptied and when.
