More and more underage asylum seekers come to Finland alone
Swedish immigration service confessed already in February 2015 that hundreds of children who have come to the country disappear every year.
This was reported by for instance SVT.se and Dagens Nyheter on their websites. According to Swedish immigration service, hundreds of underage applicants disappear every year in the country.
Senior Inspector Juha Kannelmaa from the Finnish Immigration Service describes the situation in Finland and how it has changed.
Is the situation in Finland the same?
How many applicants disappear “underground” every year? - In 2013 there was a total of 156 asylum applications of underage children who arrived alone.
Nine of them disappeared.
In 2014 there were 196 such applications, and 11 of them disappeared, Kannelmaa says.
In the background of a disappearance can be that when the case is ongoing it is found out that the applicant is already registered in some other country applying Dublin regulation and that the applicant might have been discovered to be of age there.
Then it might be more appealing to an applicant to disappear than to continue with the case in Finland and to face refoulement to the country responsible for the application processing.
In proportion, part of those who disappeared are also found later, when they apply for an asylum in some other member country.
In 2014, the total number of asylum seekers in Finland was 3,651, of which 134 applications were dropped on account of the applicant most likely had moved away from Finland, so a total of 123 adult asylum seekers disappeared last year, he says.
Are the numbers growing?
This year by 6 September we have received a total of 586 asylum applications from underage children arriving alone.
There are no total statistics yet of underage asylum seekers who have disappeared this year, but the number of underage applicants is known and it has clearly grown, which most likely will also have an effect on the number of disappearances, she emphasises.
What happens to those who receive a decision of deportation?
Are some of them lost for example to “grey labour market”?
This is a difficult thing for the Immigration Services to estimate, since deportation implementation is a responsibility of the police, stresses Kannelmaa.
Minister of the Interior Petteri Orpo (Coalition) has been worried about the growing number of unregistered people coming to the country.
He has taken steps in this regard.
Orpo, who considered the refugee question in the meeting of European interior ministers, on Monday shared some practical actions about how to manage the flow of refugees via Sweden to northern Finland.
