STTK is preparing an optional competitiveness package
STTK will begin to prepare an optional package for the Government’s tightening of working life conditions.
The organisation hopes that also other labour market organisations will contribute.
According to the chairman, Antti Palola, at this moment their attention is on this Friday’s demonstration.
Alternative methods of lowering the cost of work will be discussed again after that.
Everyone understands that life goes on after Friday, said Palola to reporters while on a break from a meeting organised by the organisations management.
Palola estimates that the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK) has no readiness for discussions.
The economists of STTK have calculated that the change security included in the Government’s competitiveness package will cost about 30 million euros to employers, when the other side of the package is 2.700 million.
I do not know, if a party is that excited in taking part in discussions, if they are on the receiving end with a ratio of one to hundred.
Palola: Constructive dialogue
Prime Minister Juha Sipilä (Centre) has hoped to receive alternative proposals by Wednesday, because the Government is then due to give a statement about their own package to the Parliament, and to begin the preparation for the reform.
Palola did not take a stand on whether the schedule is realistic or not.
According to Palola, there exists a dialogue with the Government, and he thinks it has been constructive the whole time.
According to Palola, especially Sunday pay cut is a sore issue for the Finnish Confederation of Professionals (STTK).
The organisation requires that the Government retreats from mandatory legislation it plans to use in implementing part of the package.
According to Palola, STTK does not warm to the idea of preparing an alternative package together with SDP who have raised the issue.
The salary earners will meet in Helsinki on Friday to protest against the competitiveness package introduced last week by the Government.
As part of the package, the pay for the first sick leave days will be cut, overtime pay will be halved, Sunday pay will be reduced to 75 per cent and the holidays will be shortened.
STTK emphasises that the central organisations have invited salary earners to a demonstration, and the goal has not been to arrange a strike.
Commendations from Akava’s Fjäder
Akava President Sture Fjäder acknowledges STTK’s announcement about preparing an alternative package.
According to Fjäder, STTK now aligns with Akava, for Akava has already for some time drafted an alternative model for the Government’s proposals.
Fjäder hopes that also SAK takes part in the alternative package, because without SAK, the package is not inclusive enough.
