Yle: Minister Berner on board of tax haven firm
According to Yle, the Minister of Transport and Communications (Centre), Anne Berner, has served on the board of a tax haven firm.
According to Yle, the company’s operations involve so called tax planning.
The company in question is Saltri II LuxCo from Luxembourg, and Berner joined the board in December 2012.
According to the Luxembourg register of companies she still remains on the board.
Berner herself says she has already given notice of her resignation in May this year.
" looked into the matter and it’s enough that I have handed in my resignation.
It’s almost impossible to manage and control that everything is in the right register in time, Berner says in Yle’s interview.
Member after a merger
The company in Luxembourg is used to manage the holdings of a Swedish Kährs company.
Kährs is a flooring company who merged with the Finnish flooring company Karelia-Upofloor already in 2012.
Berner served on the board of Karelia-Upofloor between 2010 and 2013, and after the merger she served on board of Kährs as well as the company from Luxembourg.
According to Yle, Kährs’ holdings go through a complicated ownership structure in Luxembourg.
Berner said to Yle that she accepted the board position in the Luxembourgian company by request of the Kährs’ second largest owner.
This owner is Hartwall Capital.
I have served on board of Karelia-Upofloor owned by Hartwall Capital.
The company was looking for a partner in cooperation, which was found in Sweden.
This company was owned by a capital investor with a company in Luxembourg.
I felt my duty was to protect shareholders in the Finnish family firm.
It is important that we ensure our Finnish companies’ capital gains are taxed in Finland, and that premise was secured in this context, Berner says.
Berner said to Yle that there is no tax planning involved in Hartwall Capital ownerships.
According to Berner, the complicated ownership structure in a tax haven only exists because Kährs’ biggest owner, investment company Triton, already had a holding company in Luxembourg for ownership.
