“Same boat, common goal, voluntary work” - play bingo while Sipilä speaks tonight
The Green Left in the University of Tampere
The Green Left in the University of Tampere, Viva, has a bingo coupon for tonight.
Earlier the Prime Ministers have given special speeches during the Mäntsälä rebellion and the wars.
The Prime Minister Juha Sipilä extremely exceptionally will address the nation about the state of Finnish economy on Yle channels on Wednesday evening 9.05 PM.
When looking for a similar Prime Minister’s speech, we have to go back to 1932, when Pehr Evind Svinhufvud, while being the Prime Minister, gave a famous broadcasted speech that meant the beginning of the end for Mäntsälä rebellion.
After that, the President and the ministers gave several radio speeches during the Winter and Continuation Wars.
In the 1990s, Esko Aho gave the New Year’s speech instead of the President Mauno Koivisto, but that was more related to ceremony.
In the autumn 1976, president Urho Kekkonen brought an end to the train dispatcher strike with a televised speech.
Soliloquy, monarchist pursuit
During the whole day, Sipilä’s speech has invited criticism and guesses about what is to come.
The Left Alliance leader Paavo Arhinmäki said via Twitter that “Sipilä could make his speech about the situation of the nation also in the parliament as a Prime Minister’s announcement, which would allow for discussion.”
According to Ville Niinistö from Green League, “we have already seen soliloquy”.
Dialogue and listening to people are part of being a leader.
Erkki Tuomioja of the Social Democratic Party judged in Facebook that “this is a monarchist pursuit: the Prime Minister tells the people what is best for them”.
The leader of the Social Democratic Party Antti Rinne challenged Sipilä to a dialogue: “It has been almost six months since the election.
The Prime Minister has not once appeared in the media with the opposition.
We have tried.
What is @juhasipila afraid of?
Public service
According to the Prime Minister’s Office, the speech has been recorded beforehand, and it lasts about 15 minutes.
According to the Central Organisation of Finnish Trade Unions, SAK, it will be commented live by the SAK President Lauri Lyly and the Director General of the Confederation of Finnish Industries Jyri Häkämies.
Yle has been criticised for broadcasting Sipilä’s speech.
We considered the matter and found that it is part of the task for a public service to promote the publicity countrywide publicity, declared Yle Director of Media Ismo Silvo for Yle news.
Like in the 60s
The speech has also provoked taunts.
“When the evening comes, dinner is eaten early, and the children are washed and dressed in their Sunday best.
Mother changes into a prettier frock and father puts a tie around his neck.
At nine o’clock the family then quietens down in front of the television, as if a TV series family of yore”, writes blogger Saku Timonen.
“In his speech, will the Prime Minister Sipilä also tell why there are millionaires hiding their funds in tax paradises sitting in the Finnish government, creating acts of indemnity to their tax evader pals and, at the same time, arguing to people that we must cut becuase the country has no money left?”, asks Pia Lohikoski.
One guess about what Sipilä will say is presented by Viva, the Green Left in the University of Tampere.
It has published the herewith bingo in Facebook.
Will we hear about the same boat, common goal, living on credit and team spirit tonight?
Ready your coupons and pens, it begins at 9.05 PM from the channels TV1, Radio Suomi and Yle Areena.
