Sipilä still hopes the labour market to present an option for tightening conditions
According to Prime Minister Juha Sipilä (Centre), the halving of holiday pay that has been in the public eye would only take care of one part of the Government’s attempt to lower the price of work.
He says that the Government is happy to receive an alternative package though, if the labour market organisations manage to agree on one.
Sipilä told the journalists in the parliament that he has not been in contact with the labour market organisations.
Neither did he know how serious the organisations are in their search for replacement tools for tightening working life conditions the government announced.
If this agreement is created, we are most definitely happy to receive it as part of the whole package.
According to Sipilä halving the holiday pay would be an effective tool, since it would target nearly all the salary earners, instead of for example the Sunday pay cut the government is planning.
The labour market organisations could agree on the holiday pay cuts among themselves, since they are written into the collective labour agreements instead of a law.
For now it seems that the Government will give a statement to Parliament about the tightening working life conditions on Wednesday.
According to Sipilä, the organisations’ proposals should be available before this.
But even this is not the final deadline.
Legislation process starts then, and when the train is moving, it gets harder all the time.
Now there is still time.
These things do not take long if there is a will, worded Sipilä.
The list published last week by the Government includes for example changing Epiphany and Ascension Day into unpaid days off without shortening annual working hours.
Additionally, the pay for the first sick leave days will be cut, overtime pay will be halved, Sunday pay will be reduced to 75 per cent and the holidays will be shortened.
The reforms will be carried out through mandatory legislation, past the labour organisations, which has attracted strong criticism.
The labour market organisations organise a big demonstration on Friday to protest these actions, in addition to which several trade unions have declared political strikes.
