Ahtisaari for the Guardian: The West ignored Russian offer to have al-Assad step aside
More than three years ago the West ignored Russian offer to have Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to give up power, says President Martti Ahtisaari for the Guardian.
According to Ahtisaari, the Russian ambassador for the UN laid out a plan, which included having al-Assad elegantly cede power after some time.
The western countries did not grasp the proposal, though, since they thought al-Assad would fall anyway in a few weeks.
Ahtisaari held talks about the Syrian crisis with five permanent members of the UN security council in 2012.
He said that in a private conversation, the Russian ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, laid out a three-point plan: we should not give arms to the opposition, we should get dialogue going between the opposition and al-Assad straight away, and we should find an elegant way for al-Assad to step aside.
I know Churkin.
We do not necessarily agree on all issues but we can talk candidly.
I explained what I was doing there and he said: “Martti, sit down and I’ll tell you what we should do”, Ahtisaari recalls in the Guardian interview.
No comments from the diplomats
Ahtisaari says he passed Churkin’s message to the United States, Britain and France, but nothing happened.
Churkin did not confirm the contents of the discussion to the newspaper, but according to Ahtisaari there is no question about it.
The UN diplomats also refused to comment on Ahtisaari’s claim, but pointed out that during that time, al-Assad’s forces had already carried out multiple massacres, and the main opposition groups refused to accept any proposal that left him in power.
Britain’s former director of the Middle East department of the Foreign Office, Sir John Jenkins, is hesitant about Ahtisaari’s claims, since in his experience, Russia was at no stage prepared to discuss al-Assad’s fate.
Officially Russia has supported al-Assad during the whole war.
The weakest point in Ahtisaari’s claim is that Churkin would have been speaking with Moscow’s authority.
I think if he had told me what Churkin had said, I would have replied I wanted to hear it from President Vladimir Putin too before I could take it seriously.
According to Jenkins, he would have even then suspected that it was a Putin trick to keep an al-Assad supporter in power.
The flow of refugees is our own doing
At the time of Ahtisaari's talks, the death toll from the Syrian conflict was about 7.500.
The UN believes that toll passed 220,000 at the beginning of this year.
Over 11 million people have been forced out of their homes because of the war.
We should have prevented this disaster from happening.
This flow of refugees to Europe is our own doing.
I do not see any other option but to take good care of these poor people.
We are now paying the bills we have caused ourselves, states Ahtisaari to the newspaper.
